Oracles and Offchain (#468)
substrate-developer-hub/substrate-docs: v3/docs/02-concepts/h-off-chain-features/index.mdx

---
title: Off-Chain Features
slug: /v3/concepts/off-chain-features
version: 3.0
section: docs
category: concepts
keywords: off-chain, off-chain storage, oracles, ocw
---

There is often a need to query and/or process off-chain data before it can be included in the on-chain state.
The conventional way of doing this is through [oracles](/v3/getting-started/glossary#oracle).
While this approach works, it still has several flaws with respect to security, scalability, and infrastructure efficiency.

To make the off-chain data integration secure and more efficient, Substrate provides off-chain features:

> - **Off-Chain Worker (OCW)** subsystem allows execution of long-running and possibly non- deterministic tasks
>   (e.g. web requests, encryption/decryption and signing of data, random number generation,CPU-intensive computations, enumeration/aggregation of on-chain data, etc.)
>   that could otherwise require longer than the block execution time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Off-Chain Worker (OCW)** subsystems allows execution of long-running and possibly non-deterministic tasks (e.g. web requests, encryption/decryption and signing of data, random number generation, CPU-intensive computations, enumeration/aggregation of on-chain data, etc.) that could otherwise require longer than the block execution time.
```

Reviewer: One-line-ified.

> - **Off-Chain Storage** offers storage that is local to a Substrate node that can be accessed both by off-chain workers (both read and write access)
>   and on-chain logic (write access via off-chain indexing but not read access).
>   This is great for different worker threads to communicate to each others and for storing user or
>   node-specific data that does not require consensus over the whole network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Off-Chain Storage** offers storage that is local to a Substrate node that can be accessed both by off-chain workers (both read and write access) and on-chain logic (write access via off-chain indexing but not read access).
This allows different worker threads to communicate to each other and to store user or node-specific data that does not require consensus over the whole network.
```
